# MRD-DressToSurvive

Jocelyn Le, Rayann Liang, Emmaly Nguyen, Jace Walden
LMC 4733 - Mixed Reality
22 April 2025
Dress to Survive Final Project Report

Project Goal
Through this interactive experience, we want to raise awareness for the impact of climate change. We want to ensure that future generations understand the impact of climate change. Currently, the effects of climate change are not immediate, there are warmer temperatures, rising sea levels, changing precipitation levels, ect which is why we want to explore the most devastating outcomes as this what would happen if we don’t slow down climate change now. We hope that after participating in this exhibit, visitors will understand the necessary urgency to slow down, reflect on their relationship with the environment, and ultimately prevent the devastating effects of climate change. 
We chose to gamify our project so that we could effectively educate users while keeping them engaged. Visitors will be able to interact with speculative clothing in person and virtually which helps the project to be more interactive which we are hoping leaves a lasting impression on the visitors. This challenge will demonstrate to users that if the climate worsens, it will impact our daily lives, requiring us to carefully choose what we wear. This will highlight the severity of climate change and encourage users to think about the impact more critically on an individual and community scale.

Technology
We used Unity to create the main scene and facilitate the overall experience. Within Unity, we used the Vuforia Engine plugin to perform image tracking and provide a foundation for augmented reality. We connected a phone to use in place of the laptop camera for better quality tracking. For the 2D assets such as the character and clothing, we used Procreate. Some other sourced assets came from SketchFab, TurboSquid, Ready Player Me, or Mixamo. 
Process
We first created a FigJam where we shared our initial ideas and discussed which idea we wanted to focus on. We explored the potential themes of all our projects and how they overlapped or differed. After discussing it, we wanted to explore more about global warming and extreme weather. We also wanted to incorporate speculative wearables as it felt like it would be a different way to speculate the effects that climate change had on the future of everyday life.  

Then we started ideating on what experiences we could create. We came up with a few ideas including education modules, creating a gameplay loop, or creating a “Dress to Impress” game. We settled on a Dress to Impress game as we felt like it would be the best way to effectively show the consequences of extreme climate change while incorporating speculative design into our project. 
We further dove into ideating how we were going to develop our project.We created 2-D prototypes of what we wanted our doll to look like. We read research papers on wearable technologies and potential climates for the future so that we could gain inspiration while keeping the project scientifically accurate. We had a general idea of the game we wanted to create, but still wanted to work on the screen to screen gameplay. We created two user personas to explore what a potential visitor would look like and concluded that our project should focus more on younger children as that’s where it would be the most effective. 
Jace began setting up our scene in Unity using the Vuforia Engine plugin. We looked for assets of a bedroom to use as the base for our game.  Jocelyn drew and animated the 2D assets in Procreate and created animations by drawing frames of the doll with the clothing. We tested image tracking (one at a time and then multiple at once). We had some difficulty integrating an external camera for higher quality, but eventually fixed it when tweaking with the settings. We created the rest of the environment in unity to reflect the climate we wanted to portray. For physical assets, we created the tags in Figma to reflect this idea of clothing you could purchase. We also cut out shapes of the clothing and the doll on cardboard so that people could interact with the clothing not only virtually, but also in person. 
Jocelyn helped with the research, drew and animated the 2D assets, helped with the Unty scene creation, and planned the game design and user flow. Rayann helped with the research, the clothing and environment ideation, and the physical asset creation. Emmaly helped with the research, the physical asset creation, and some of the image tracking. Jace created the Unity scene, managed the Vuforia/Image tracking, and sourced the 3D assets.
Like any projects, there were challenges that arose (anticipated and unanticipated). We ran into the familiar issue of time management; with final project deadlines for other classes, exams, and other responsibilities, it was difficult to work in long sprints at a time. We met outside of class to make up for missed time, which made it much easier to work together when there were questions. One issue we didn’t anticipate running into was integrating an external camera. It took us a while to go through Reddit, YouTube, and Stack Overflow to find a solution to our problem, but we ended up fixing it so that we could use the phone camera instead of the laptop camera to better track the image target. Another challenge we encountered was due to our group being a bit too ambitious. We realized our original plan was going to take longer than the time we had, so we had to pivot and alter our project a little bit.

Future Work
If we were to extend the project, we would want Dress to Survive to be a larger and more immersive experience. Instead of having the AR show on the laptop screen/small projected screen, we want the screen to take up space on a wall with a high quality camera to record the physical image trackers. We would also like to extend the narrative and fully build out the storyline. His would increase engagement with the exhibit and leave a larger impact on those interacting with the display. 
We would like to expand upon the clothing items and environmental scenarios we present to the exhibit viewers. As we further speculate future climates and environments, we can push viewers to think more critically about what we wear in our day-to-day lives. Our current set of clothing and environments represent conditions within the United States, but it would be better for viewers to experience and reflect on our environment on the global scale. 
Our team would also like to see the exhibit become more challenging (as it is more challenging to combat irreversible climate change). We have considered adding a timer to make viewers feel the pressure of climate change or altering the clothing and technology properties to make viewers analyze the tradeoffs more critically. Currently, our character is a young kid, but it would be interesting to see how complicated building an outfit would get if the character were older and had a set of needs that viewers need to be more attentive towards.

Link to Prototype and Video Walk-Through
Website: https://rliang43gatechedu.itch.io/overwater-tech 
Link to Prototype: https://youtu.be/j8fUc6p15H4 
Bibliography
Lian, M. (2024, October 05). Alternative Perception, Broadening Sensing: From Passive to Active: Opening Conversations with Wearables. ACM Digital Library, 276 - 280. https://doi.org/10.1145/3675094.3678367
Schaar, R., & Zeagler, C. (2021, July 25-29). Predicting Inclusive Futures: Wearables, Automation, and Design Speculation. Advances in Industrial Design, 260, 157-164.
Palacios-Mateo, C., Van der Meer, Y., & Seide, G. (2021, January) Analysis of the Polyester Clothing Value Chain to Identify Key Intervention Points for Sustainability. Environmental Sciences Europe, U.S. National Library of Medicine, pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7787125/. 